What qualities does the Bible say would characterize people living during the last days?
Would you say unity and peace or disunity and selfishness?
Well, actually, both answers are correct, depending on which group of people we're talking about.
The Apostle Paul was inspired to write at 2 Timothy 3 verses 1 through 5,
that among other things, people in general would be lovers of themselves,
not open to any agreement and fears.
But the prophet Michael also was inspired to write regarding the last days,
prophecy that we're seeing fulfilled on our day. What did he write?
I invite you to open to Micah chapter 2, and notice with me, please, verse 12.
Micah chapter 2 verse 12, and here we find the word of Jehovah that came to Micah.
What did Jehovah say?
I will certainly gather all of you, O Jacob.
I will surely collect the remaining ones of Israel together.
In unity, I will place them like sheep in the pen, like a flock in its pasture.
It will be noisy with people.
In unity, I will place them.
Since 1919, anointed Christians have been collected together like sheep in the pen.
And being joined by other sheep, they have become noisy with people.
Yes, we zealously promote pure worship and find a light in our association.
And with 9 million, nearly 9 million of Jehovah's people, that's a lot of joyful chatter.
Have you attended this year's convention yet?
You're in for a treat.
There you'll enjoy a banquet of spiritual food and the peace and unity that characterizes Jehovah's happy people.
Well, who is responsible for the peace and unity that we enjoy?
Well, if we look back at the verse there, Jehovah himself says,
in unity, I will place them like sheep in the pen.
So Jehovah is responsible.
But how does he unify us?
If you're still there in Micah, turn over, please to chapter 4.
And here we identify in the first verse.
It says in the final part of the day, so the time in which we live right now,
verse 2, many nations will go and say,
come, let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah and to the house of the God of Jacob.
He will instruct us about his ways.
Yes, divine education is involved, instruction.
He will instruct us about his ways and we will walk in his paths.
So applying what we learn is a requisite as well.
And what result?
Notice in verse 3, they will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears.
Nation will not lift up sword against nation, nor will they learn war anymore.
We are sharing in the fulfillment of these words right now.
In a time when the nations and even individuals are armed to the teeth,
Jehovah's people refuse to learn war, education and application.
And Jehovah willingly instructs people of all nations.
He doesn't close the borders of the pen of his spiritual nation to certain nationalities.
No, Jehovah unites in the pen individuals from any nation who are willing to conform to his standards.
The peace and unity we experience among Jehovah's people is a modern-day miracle.
Do we appreciate it?
Consider just two examples.
Lothar from Germany, which incidentally I understand Lothar means famous warrior,
he had been part of the German Hitler youth.
And Herbert from Britain, which I understand Herbert means illustrious warrior,
had been in the British Royal Air Force.
They were fed propaganda by this world and were enemies during World War II.
But then Jehovah educated them.
And they were baptized as his witnesses.
They put into practice the things that they learned.
Later as missionaries in Venezuela, they worked together to teach people how to live at peace.
First of all with God and then with one another.
Lothar and Herbert were even roommates for a while according to the 96-year book.
Another man we'll call Robert was from a staunchly Protestant family
and joined the British army at 19 years of age and was assigned to Northern Ireland.
A woman we'll call Teresa on the other hand was from a Catholic background
and she joined the local political party Shin Fein as a young girl.
She kept the Irish Republican army, the IRA, informed about what was happening in her area.
Well, eventually both Robert and Teresa began learning Bible truth from Jehovah's Witnesses.
Later they met at a congregation meeting in Northern Ireland.
Teresa said, when I first met Robert, I found it difficult to believe that I was talking so calmly and peacefully
with someone whom I would have considered part of the British war machine.
God's word has certainly helped me to remove deep-seated hatreds and prejudices.
She and Robert now found that they had many things in common.
They got married.
Lothar and Herbert, Robert and Teresa, many others have beaten their swords into plough shares
and their spears into pruning shears.
Only Jehovah can accomplish that with his powerful Holy Spirit.
Yet why might maintaining Christian unity be a challenge for us at times?
Let's look at today's scripture texts.
If we turn over to John chapter 10 now,
John chapter 10 verse 16,
and these are Jesus' words, the head of the Christian congregation, the fine shepherd.
Notice what he says.
John 10 16, and I have other sheep which are not of this fold.
Those two, I must bring in and they will listen to my voice and they will become one flock, one shepherd.
So the challenge is not just the sheer volume of sheep that Jesus has gathered into the flock,
but the fact that we have so many different backgrounds as well.
Think for a moment about literal sheep.
How many different types of sheep are there?
Now this was news to me as I was preparing for this part,
but most sources indicate that there are over 200 distinct breeds of sheep from all over the world.
Just to name a few, there are Scottish blackface, whiteface woodland,
blueface lester, California red, Barbados blackbelly, and Wiltshire horn sheep.
Each type of sheep has different characteristics, some are known for their wool,
others are known for their meat, or even for their milk,
and sheep have different temperaments, some are more docile than others.
But not one type of sheep has all of the desirable characteristics.
What a fitting illustration that Jesus used.
This one united flock of precious sheep comes from where?
It comes from over 230 different lands around the earth, out of all nations, tribes, peoples and tongues.
We all have strength, we all have weaknesses, so it takes work to remain united.
And what is the key? What did we discuss? Education? Application.
And what did Jesus say? The sheep would do his other sheep.
All of those that are together, they will listen to my voice.
All of Jesus' sheep, the little flock and the other sheep alike, work hard to apply his teachings.
Consider just a few from Jesus' sermon on the Mount.
We try hard to make peace with our brother if we've offended him in some way.
We try our best to love our enemies.
We forgive others, their trespasses.
We do our best to stop judging others who for their actions or for their motives.
And fundamentally, we treat others as we would like them to treat us.
Because of our rich diet of spiritual food, we produce peaceful qualities, peaceful fruit.
Education and application leads to peace.
With what result? What did Jesus say?
We become one flock, one shepherd.
We enjoy precious unity as a group.
But what about us as individuals in our work environment or in our daily activities?
What's our responsibility?
No, please, how the Apostle Paul highlighted the qualities that we continually need to cultivate.
Ephesians chapter four.
And notice, please, verses one through three.
Ephesians four, one through three, the Apostle Paul wrote,
therefore, either prisoner in the Lord appealed to you to walk worthyly of the calling with which you were called,
with all humility and mildness with patience.
Putting up with one another in love, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace.
So what qualities are not produced in the spiritual paradise?
What did you not see in these verses?
Well, pride, stubbornness, independent thinking, they don't exist in the spiritual paradise.
If we detect any of these weeds growing in us, then we want to root them out with the help of Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
But what qualities do grow in the spiritual paradise?
Notice, as Paul said, humility, mildness, patience, forgiveness.
These contribute to the uniting bond of peace.
It takes earnest effort.
We earnestly need to apply ourselves.
But Jehovah blesses our efforts to display such qualities.
So what have we considered this morning?
Although the world continues to become more and more divided, Jehovah's people become more and more united.
Jehovah unifies his people.
He teaches us how to live together in peace.
And we strive to cultivate qualities that will strengthen our Christian unity.
So as we interact with one another today, may Jehovah's Spirit guide our thoughts and actions.
Move us to reside with one another in peace and unity.